Quality Declaration, License and Contributing files (#65)
ros/console_bridge: QUALITY_DECLARATION.md

This document is a declaration of software quality for the `libconsole-bridge-dev` ROS external dependency, based on the guidelines in [REP-2004](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2004.html).

# `libconsole-bridge-dev` Quality Declaration

The ROS external dependency `libconsole-bridge-dev` claims to be in the **Quality Level 4** category.

Below are the rationales, notes, and caveats for this claim, organized by each requirement listed in the [Package Quality Categories in REP-2004](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#package-quality-categories) of the ROS2 developer guide.

## Version Policy [1]

### Version Scheme [1.i]

`libconsole-bridge-dev` uses `semver` according to the recommendation for ROS Core packages in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#versioning).

### Version Stability [1.ii]

`libconsole-bridge-dev` is not yet at a stable version, i.e. `>= 1.0.0`.

### Public API Declaration [1.iii]

All symbols in the installed headers are considered part of the public API.

### API Stability Policy [1.iv]

> `libconsole-bridge-dev` is used as an upstream package within the ROS2 ecosystem, and is pinned to a particular version to guarantee it will not break public API within a released ROS distribution, i.e. no major releases once the ROS distribution is released.

Reviewer: This package hasn't changed much in the last few years. I would say instead that the API has been stable for several years, but if a breaking change is introduced, ROS 2 distributions may need to pin to a specific major version.

### ABI Stability Policy [1.v]

> `libconsole-bridge-dev` is used as an upstream package within the ROS2 ecosystem, and is pinned to a particular version to guarantee it will not break public ABI within a released ROS distribution, i.e. no major releases once the ROS distribution is released.

Reviewer: Same

### ABI and ABI Stability Within a Released ROS Distribution [1.vi]

> `libconsole-bridge-dev` will not break API nor ABI within a released ROS distribution, i.e. no major releases once the ROS distribution is released.

Reviewer: This is a non-ROS package.

## Change Control Process [2]

`libconsole-bridge-dev` follows the recommended guidelines for ROS Core packages in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#change-control-process).

### Change Requests [2.i]

All changes will occur through a pull request, check [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#change-control-process) for additional information.

### Contributor Origin [2.ii]

This package uses DCO as its confirmation of contributor origin policy. More info can be seen under the [contributing file](./CONTRIBUTING.md) of this repository.

### Peer Review Policy [2.iii]

All pull requests will be peer-reviewed, check [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#change-control-process) for additional information.

### Continuous Integration [2.iv]

Currently not tested on CI.

###  Documentation Policy [2.v]

All pull requests must resolve related documentation changes before merging.

> ###  Documentation Policy [2.v]

Reviewer: Duplicate

All pull requests must resolve related documentation changes before merging.

## Documentation [3]

### Feature Documentation [3.i]

> `libconsole-bridge-dev` does not have a per feature documentation. Provides partial documentation on this [wiki](http://wiki.ros.org/console_bridge).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`libconsole-bridge-dev` does not have per-feature documentation. There is partial documentation on the ROS 1 [wiki](http://wiki.ros.org/console_bridge).
```

### Public API Documentation [3.ii]

There is no Public API documentation for this library.

### License [3.iii]

> The license for `libconsole-bridge-dev` is Apache 3-Clause BSD, and a summary is in each source file and a full copy of the license is in the [`LICENSE`](./LICENSE) file.

Reviewer: Fix license type

### Copyright Statements [3.iv]

The copyright holders each provide a statement of copyright in each source code file in `libconsole-bridge-dev`.

## Testing [4]

### Feature Testing [4.i]

`libconsole-bridge-dev` provides partial testing of some features under the [test folder](./test/).

### Public API Testing [4.ii]

`libconsole-bridge-dev` does not have Public API testing.

### Coverage [4.iii]

`libconsole-bridge-dev` does not provide coverage testing.

### Performance [4.iv]

`libconsole-bridge-dev` does not provide performance testing.

### Linters and Static Analysis [4.v]

`libconsole-bridge-dev` is not being tested with linters or static analysis tools.

## Dependencies [5]

`libconsole-bridge-dev` has no run-time or build-time dependencies that need to be considered for this declaration. 

## Platform Support [6]

> Is not publicly stated the platforms supported by `libconsole-bridge-dev`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not publicly stated which platforms are supported by `libconsole-bridge-dev`.
```

This document is a declaration of software quality for the `libconsole-bridge-dev` ROS external dependency, based on the guidelines in [REP-2004](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2004.html).

# `libconsole-bridge-dev` Quality Declaration

The ROS external dependency `libconsole-bridge-dev` **does not claim** to be in the **Quality Level 1** category.

> Below are the rationales, notes, and caveats for this claim, organized by each requirement listed in the [External dependencies requirements for Quality Level 1 in REP-2XXX](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2004.html).

Author: May be a different link if requirements will be different for external dependencies (but still point to REP-2004 as desired)

External dependencies are evaluated on a case by case basis, some items may not adhere to standards defined for ROS packages.

## Version Policy

### Version Scheme

> It is not publicly available the information regarding `libconsole-bridge-dev` uses a versioning system to manage automatically their version schemes. Their latest library release is set to 0.4.4

Author: Actually console_bridge_vendor uses console_bridge-0.4.1, not sure if a quality document should target the master of the library used or the explicit version used in the ros2 code.

### API Stability // ABI Stability

`libconsole-bridge-dev` library do not make any declaration regarding if it's API or ABI stable.

### Public API Declaration

There is no specific documentation regarding a Public API or expected functions that can be used from the library. 

`console.h` is available in the source code, the functions available can be seen there, but the API is not documented.

## Change Control Process

There is no specific implementation/guidelines stated as to how authors are maintaining that library.

## Documentation

> `libconsole-bridge-dev` does not provide any type of documentation of how the library is used in their source code repository. There is a [Wiki](http://wiki.ros.org/console_bridge) related to their functionality and expected behavior for its old ROS package.

Author: The Wiki was added as some sort of documentation, but addresses an old version of the original repo, not this library itself

Feature and API documentation are not addressed.

### License and Copyright Statements

> It is not explicitly stated a License or Copyright statement for the library. There is no particular LICENSE file in the source files or on the repository of the library. However, the source files (.cpp and .hpp) all contain the following BSD license header: 

Author: Actually for this library shouldn't be a problem to deal with the copyright issues. But it would be great to define the minimum requirements for a library to declare the license used.

	* "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
	* LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
	* FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
	* COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
	* INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
	* BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
	* LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
	* CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
	* LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
	* ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
	* POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
	*********************************************************************/

## Testing

The `libconsole-bridge-dev` library includes a simple testing to check if it compiles properly the basic simple case use. Does not include any kind of performance tests, coverage information nor static analysis.

## Dependencies

There is no dependency on external sources for the `libconsole-bridge-dev` library, only C++ libraries included in the standard library (mutex, iostream).

> ## Platform Support

Author: Maybe for external libraries which are not really supported for specific operative systems it can be considered changing this requirement for a metric more related to "Portability"

There is no particular statement regarding this library provides, or not, support for any particular platform. The fact that it does not use external dependencies to C++ makes it portable enough to consider it compatible with Tier1 ROS2 platforms. But there is no public information related from this available on its repository.

## Conclusion summary

> The `libconsole-bridge-dev` has a simple case test and license headers over its source files. However, does not cover several of the standards defined for quality level 1 packages. It was decided by the XYZ committee that the `libconsole-bridge-dev` library will not be considered quality level 1.

Author: Two things to consider: 
1. Implicit declaration of a team that will take the decision of considering external libraries level 1 or not (if needed be, for particular use cases)
2. If external libraries are downloaded at a fixed version, maybe external dependencies can be evaluated directly by making internal test cases with the subset of the functionality of the library that's used in the ROS2 packages ?
